Most of these projects are done with at least some help from an AI model, usually Claude since I have a subscription with Anthropic. But, I make a point of using AI to enhance rather than replace my thinking and learning. Overall, I aim to use AI consciously, cautiously, and as an amplifier for my own capabilities rather than a replacement. I do my best to adhere to the six principles below when I do use AI:

Criticality: Mission critical items should always be drafted, prototyped, or at least well specified by a human.
Editing and Debugging: AI is best used to work on existing ideas.
Worst Case Scenario: The most important question about AI use in a particular situation is "What happens if this response is catastrophically awful?"
Sandboxing and Sources: If the risk posed by a wrong response is moderately high and cannot be sandboxed before deployment, any AI used should be required to verify and cite reputable sources to back up its decisions, and the human needs to actually read them.
Search Engine: However, the AI is very good at — and should be used as — a search engine to provide these links to support its recommendations in high risk scenarios. And, even in low risk scenarios, it can be great to use as a search engine to research a concept.
Cognitive Overextension: Finally, stick to topics which I at least have some background in when using AI, since even though it CAN jump into a college level analysis of just about anything, I may not understand enough to call out anything it does wrong unless I already have an appropriate background in the subject I am working on.

In-depth explanation:
First off, I would like to say that no part of this message or the above is generated by an LLM. This is something that I want to be as authentic as possible, and I want it to be done well, so I have chosen to write it myself. This message HAS been reviewed by an LLM, and parts of it may be MANUALLY edited based on suggestions it makes that are backed up with solid logic I can understand, but the first of my central tenets of AI use is that the first draft of anything particularly important should probably be at least sketched out by a (hopefully intelligent) human. I have found that AI will do some REALLY stupid things if left PURELY to their own devices, particularly when they are given a lot of freedom or are expected to come up with something all on their own. They work best when the requirements of a project are well defined. With code specifically, they do best when one gives them a pseudocode structure that is as specific as possible. This minimizes the model trying to guess and hallucinate.

The second tenet of my AI use is also demonstrated even in the making of this message: AI is best at criticizing and debugging things, especially from perspectives that humans may have trouble approaching from. Since they are trained on essentially the entire internet, LLMs are great to ask "Look at this from the perspective of an employer. What are they going to be looking for here, and how might I improve it to convey my message the best?" Or, they can easily analyze from the perspective of a student, professor, colleague, peer, employee, etc. AIs are great to sanity check oneself with while deep in a technical project.

With this said, my third tenet is that one still needs to be careful and ALWAYS ask "What happens if the agent got this completely wrong?" Asking this question will indicate when it may not be a good idea to use an LLM. Working with a cheap, small low voltage circuit? Fine. Worst case scenario is you fry a buck or two in components. Poking at mains power? Heeeeeeck no. Unless you are SURE you know where ALL of the dangerous voltage is, assume something is dangerous to you (and to any voltage limited equipment like an oscilloscope with a low impedance probe), even if the agent is "sure" it is fine. At no point should one turn their brain off or trust the machine here. This worst case scenario mentality also demonstrates why LLMs are good at MOST software tasks. As long as one has a backup THAT THE AGENT CANNOT ACCESS WHILE RUNNING, most software tasks are low impact so long as the backup is easy to restore. Chasing a bug in a firmware project? Sure. Throw it at Claude Code, make sure it doesn't change anything out of scope, then just run the battery of tests against Claude's version. If they pass and nothing particularly inelegant was done to the code, use that solution and move on. If it does fail, either have the agent try again, or just restore the backup. No more than a minute or two lost and no harm done. On the other hand: working on a large production database? KEEP THE AGENTS AWAY. Overall, this demonstrates that AI is best used on tasks where sandboxing and testing is easy, and things going catastrophically wrong for this revision of the project will not make things go catastrophically wrong for your grades, career, or life.

However, this database situation is very relevant to my fourth tenet as well: one can still ask what to do in mission critical situations, but never use an agent that can directly implement the fixes it may come up with, and be sure to double check any recommendations it makes against both your own common sense and solid, reputable online sources that are at least reviewed by, if not written by, a qualified human.

This takes me to tenet five: especially if an agent wants to do something that may not be safe, ask it to cite reputable sources. This will either point directly to the aforementioned solid sources so that you don't have to look for them, or it will result in the machine admitting that it was hallucinating and almost did something really dumb. Chatbots in particular are best used as two-way streets and as search engines. It is easy to blindly regurgitate AI answers into homework problems, but any time I use it, I am more careful. I make a point of interacting with it more like a tutor. I ask it questions about what it tells me, and am satisfied only with thorough explanations. And of course, I never upload any actual problems or ask for direct answers unless my instructors are OK with that. This situation may seem to violate tenet three due to it potentially leading me astray on a seminal concept, but this is actually why it IS best to do it on graded homework or at least something one has an answer key to. I cautiously trust everything it says, do the problem, then check the answer. If it hallucinated anything I'll know when my answer is wrong, then I can circle back and ask it questions about the sources it used. Using it as a search engine or tutor may also seem like a violation of tenet one, since we are asking it to just "research a topic", which may not be very specific. But, tenet one applies mostly to generative tasks. In the case of a search engine, AI is merely finding what is already out there and is not actually trying to generate something from next to nothing.

My sixth and final tenet is that AI is also terrible at starting from zero. This is similar to tenet one's whole "don't have an agent do anything big from a one sentence prompt", but is really about not using an AI to replace one's own learning and expertise. AI is best used to accelerate and perform what one already largely knows. Most models are best used almost like secretaries or interns. One can ask them to push boundaries in one particular area or section of project, or research some high level concept, but it should always be something that is "in your field". It should be something that one is knowledgeable enough in to proofread whatever the AI spits out and parse the sources one asks it to cite.

Overall, as I have stated previously: AI is the most exciting and the most terrifying development in the world right now. It shows an immense potential for both help and grave harm. AI is something that I use EXTENSIVELY and with no shame, but it is also something that I never allow to replace my thinking. I do my best to never lose sight of how things might go wrong if the AI hallucinates or goes rogue. I use it cautiously and with constant testing and error checking along the way. And most important of all: I NEVER allow it to replace my thinking altogether. I will never sacrifice my mental or spiritual eyes to a machine, and will ALWAYS use technology writ large as an amplifier for my own capabilities rather than a replacement.
